# Hypermail archive textifier

Scrapes a Hypermail archive web page and saves all of the messages into individual plaintext files.


## Usage

1. Install the required modules using [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/):

        $ pip install -r requirements.txt

2. In `textify.py` set the URL of the archive you want to scrape.

3. Run the script:

        $ python textify.py

The script pauses for half a second between fetching each message, so as not to hammer the archive's servers, so it may take a while.


## Results

All being well you will end up with a `messages` directory in the same directory as the script. This will contain one text file per message, each named by its Message-ID. e.g.:

    messages/
    ├── 01b901cf2a88$6ceb42f0$46c1c8d0$@com.txt
    ├── 03a101cf2353$c6d99640$548cc2c0$@ca.txt
    ├── 3B3684E6-365B-45EC-8259-7D474C87E992@apple.com.txt

And so on.

Each text file will contain the message headers included on the web archive, followed by a blank line, followed by the message. e.g.:

	From: Bob Ferris <robert.ferris.notreally@gmail.com>
	Date: Fri, 12 Dec 2014 13:08:02 -0700
	Message-ID: <3B3684E6-365B-45EC-8259-7D474C87E992@apple.com>
	To: public-testlist@example.org

	Hello,

	Here's the start of an example email.

If the archive page indicated that the email was a reply to an earlier email, the header information will have an extra `In-Reply-To` line, containing the Message-ID of the replied-to message:

	In-Reply-To: <01b901cf2a88$6ceb42f0$46c1c8d0$@com>
	From: Bob Ferris <robert.ferris.notreally@gmail.com>
	Date: Fri, 12 Dec 2014 13:08:02 -0700
	Message-ID: <3B3684E6-365B-45EC-8259-7D474C87E992@apple.com>
	To: public-testlist@example.org

	Hello,

	Here's the start of an example email.


## Caveats

This has only been run on one archive ( https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-restrictedmedia/ ) generated by Hypermail 2.3.1. Others, with different versions of Hypermail, might not work. For example, their HTML might different, breaking the scraping of the pages that this script does.

